Going starting now. Hello, good afternoon. Hello, good afternoon.
Could you please tell us who you are and I'm Kanti. My full name is Kanti Moinath
and I was a GP. I just retired recently. That's lovely. Now Dr. Nath, tell me, when
did you come to this country? I came to this country in 1973, 23rd of June. I remember.
That's quite a way back now. Now tell me when did you first come to Cardiff or this area?
1981, 10th of June. Excellent. And you know where I'm heading. I'm heading to the
Which was your first puja in Cardiff? In 1981 I moved to Cardiff and then obviously I met a lot
of people here, mainly in the Bengali community. Then we went to see the puja and it was held in
in Rubaina Church Hall and it was well attended by the community from the Cardiff. Excellent. So
that was 1981 Rubaina Church Hall. Excellent. And was that a proper five days puja? Yes, it was.
Since 1981, let me put this in different brackets. Now tell me what you have experienced through 1981
and 1985. Right, 1981 when they came there used to be two pujas. Two groups of Hindu community,
they are doing two pujas. And 1981 was the time when I attended that puja, it was discussed to
become together. Okay. And it was very seriously discussed in the sort of like a committee level
and it became together in 1982. Okay. And the name was given Wales Puja Committee. Okay. And the Wales
Puja Committee was recognized in 1982. Lovely. And was it in 1982 that it became a registered charity or was it a few years after?
1982. Okay. Lovely. Now Dr. Nath, another thing. Since you have been involved with the puja since 1981,
what has your role been over the years? Have you been involved actively with the puja committee?
Have you been doing various chores with the puja committee? Yes. Gradually I was sucked into the Wales
Puja Committee and started becoming an active member and doing lots of things like, you know,
going to like as any other committee, as well as we were involved in small little jobs like cooking and,
you know, the arrangement of the stage and decorations and managing other things. As I understand,
you were also part of the management. You had you held certain roles in the community, like being the chairperson,
being the secretary. Yes. I was chairperson. I did the job of secretary. I was treasurer. And what else? I was
I was an active member in a way. Really? So that means there was, there has to be a form of election to get the results.
Yes. Yes. We always, every year we used to have an election and with the proper way as we do for the other elections.
And people, the members who had selected for the executive committee. Okay. And they were elected and
they used to do their job. When was the first big change that you noticed?
In which sense? You know, the overall function in the puja, creating Durga, you know, participating
in a big way, almost nationally. I think we were known nationally when we started making our first
Durga project or Durga image with two artists from India came. And then it was known to quite a lot of
people and the committees all over UK. Were there other things you did to put forward or present
WPC into the image of the normal people of Cardiff or South Wales?
Yes, I think we participated in London in a function which was organized by the Alandavajar
and we had a sort of a couple of items performed by the Wales Puja Committee members.
All right. That's interesting. But I thought I've heard that you people participated in
functions to involve the people of Wales, like certain mailers.
Yes, we did three mailers since the 1990s. Dr. Nath, what is a mailer? Mailer is a sort of like a
we arrange it for a day. It's for the general public. With all the Indian culture is shown
and the food and dance and dramas and all the shops and people are all invited and it was a free
entrance and people came in. They enjoyed the food, they enjoyed the cultural functions and
it was a very successful. Lovely. Do you think the profile of Wales Puja Committee has grown over the
years? Yes, yes it has. Do you have a permanent place where you do your functions?
We haven't got a permanent place of our own. Can I interrupt here? Listen, Dr. Nath, why since
this function, this committee has been growing over the years since the early 80s, why haven't
you got a place of your own? It's very difficult to answer that because it involves funding.
It involves funding. It needs more manpower and mainly the funding was the reason for that.
And if we get funding in future, probably we'll have our own place. Would you think you'll be able
to sustain a place of your own? Yes, we can. Okay. Because we are capable people. Lovely. Good.
Thank you very much, Dr. Nath. Thank you.